VAULT-45589: add content for vault rar authorization_details (#2593)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/vault/v2.x/content/docs/concepts/native-ai-agent-support.mdx

Reviewer: need to mention that Vault looks up issuer in OAuth resource server configuration profile, as well

Author: I think we would need to confirm the change here with Wendy since she wrote this part. I'd  prefer to keep it separate from the RAR PR for now and create a follow up ticket for the edit just to not broaden the scope.

| `owner` | Optional identifier for the person or team responsible for the agent. |
| `ceiling_policies` | List of policy names that define the agent's authorization ceiling, used to limit permissions only in on-behalf-of requests. |
| `no_default_ceiling_policy` | When `true`, Vault does not automatically add default ceiling policies to the registration. |

> | `optional_authorization_details` | When `true`, makes the `authorization_details` claim optional for this agent. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `optional_authorization_details` | When `true`, makes the `authorization_details` claim optional for the registered agent. |
```
Style correction: avoid "this" as a pronoun

does not support RAR or during a migration period.

### RAR type specification

Vault supports the `vault:path_access` RAR type for fine-grained authorization. Each authorization detail object in the `authorization_details` claim must conform to the following structure:

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| ----- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `type` | string | Yes | Must be `vault:path_access` to indicate a Vault path access constraint. |
| `path` | string | Yes | The Vault path the constraint applies to. Supports exact path matching. |
| `capabilities` | array of strings | Yes | List of capabilities permitted for the path. Valid values: `read`, `create`, `update`, `delete`, `list`, `sudo`, `patch`, `subscribe`, `recover`, `deny`. |
| `allowed_parameters` | object | No | Map of parameter names to arrays of allowed values. Restricts which request parameters and values are permitted. An empty array `[]` allows any value for that parameter. |

#### Example authorization detail

```json
{
  "type": "vault:path_access",
  "path": "secret/data/users/alice",
  "capabilities": ["read", "update"],
  "allowed_parameters": {
    "data": [],
    "rotation_period": ["24h", "5d"]

>   }

Reviewer 3: I'd advise omitting this, especially as I think this doesn't play too nicely with KV, which the path seems to indicate. We can include this in the below section for the richer support with examples for the more complex options

Author: Great point! I removed the `allowed_parameters` bit and made the example simpler.

</Note>

> ## RAR enforcement

Reviewer 3: It feels like a notable omission that we do not document our spec here at all, i.e. `vault:path_access` as a RAR type. Should that be part of this PR, or a future one?

Author: Great point. I think we need the specs here. I added them to the bottom of the section

Rich Authorization Requests (RAR) allow OAuth tokens to include fine-grained authorization constraints in the
`authorization_details` claim. Vault uses these constraints to enforce
path-level and parameter-level access control beyond what standard ACL policies provide.

### Default behavior

> By default, RAR is **enabled and required** when both of the following conditions are met:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RAR is always enabled. An OAuth 2.0 token with `authorization_details` will always have those detailed honoured. By default, RAR is **required** when both of the following conditions are met:
```

1. An OAuth resource server profile exists for the token's issuer.

> 2. An Agent Registry record exists for the entity making the request.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. An OAuth resource server profile exists for the token's issuer that does not have `optional_authorization_details` set to true.
2. An Agent Registry record exists for the entity making the request that does not have `optional_authorization_details` set to true.
```

Reviewer 3: These two qualities alone don't make RAR mandatory, since they could opt out and those two things still be true

Reviewer 3: Instead of this suggestion, we could just omit the "when both of the following conditions are met" section entirely, and it might read cleaner

Author: Agree, removing the entire piece reads better

</Note>

## RAR enforcement

Rich Authorization Requests (RAR) allow OAuth tokens to include fine-grained authorization constraints in the
`authorization_details` claim. Vault uses the provided constraints to enforce
path-level and parameter-level access control beyond what standard ACL policies provide.

### Default behavior

> Vault enables RAR by default. And OAuth 2.0 tokens with `authorization_details` always honor the RAR authentication details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vault enables RAR by default, and OAuth 2.0 tokens with `authorization_details` always honor the RAR authentication details.
```

If the JWT does not contain an `authorization_details` claim for a RAR, Vault rejects the request with an error indicating that the claim is required.

We recommend using RAR for all agentic workflows to enable fine-grained authorization constraints.

### Making RAR optional

While not recommended, making RAR optional can be useful when your identity provider does not support RAR or during a migration period.

You can make RAR optional in one of two ways:

1. Set `optional_authorization_details` to `true` on the OAuth resource server.

> 2. Set `optional_authorization_details` to `true` for the agent registration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Set `optional_authorization_details` to `true` for the agent registration.
```

### RAR type specification

Vault supports the `vault:path_access` RAR type for fine-grained authorization. Each authorization detail object in the `authorization_details` claim must conform to the following structure:

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| ----- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `type` | string | Yes | Must be `vault:path_access` to indicate a Vault path access constraint. |
| `path` | string | Yes | The Vault path the constraint applies to. Supports exact path matching. |
| `capabilities` | array of strings | Yes | List of capabilities permitted for the path. Valid values: `read`, `create`, `update`, `delete`, `list`, `sudo`, `patch`, `subscribe`, `recover`, `deny`. |
| `allowed_parameters` | object | No | Optional map of parameter names to arrays of values that restricts which request parameters and values Vault permits. An empty array `[]` allows any value for that parameter. |

#### Rich authorization request example

```json
{
  "type": "vault:path_access",
  "path": "database/creds/my-role",
  "capabilities": ["read"]
}
```

The following constraint:
- Applies to the path `database/creds/my-role`
- Permits only `read` operations

> - Works with the entity's ACL policies to determine final access

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

#### Rich authorization request example with multiple constraints

A JWT can include multiple authorization detail objects in the `authorization_details` array. Vault evaluates each constraint independently. Requests that include multiple constraints succeed if it matches at least one constraint that permits the operation.

```json
{
  "authorization_details": [
    {
      "type": "vault:path_access",
      "path": "database/creds/readonly-role",
      "capabilities": ["read"]
    },
    {
      "type": "vault:path_access",
      "path": "pki/issue/my-role",
      "capabilities": ["create", "update"]
    }
  ]
}
```

#### How RAR constraints work

RAR constraints narrow the access granted by ACL policies. For a request to succeed all of the following must be true:

1. The request path and operation must match at least one `path` and `capabilities` constraint in the RAR.

> 2. The ACL policy associated with the entity must permit the operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The ACL policy associated with the entity must permit the operation.
```

> 3. When a matching RAR constraint includes `allowed_parameters`, the request parameters must satisfy those constraints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. When a matching RAR constraint includes `allowed_parameters`, the request parameters must satisfy those constraints.
```

</Note>

## RAR enforcement

Rich Authorization Requests (RAR) allow OAuth tokens to include fine-grained authorization constraints in the

> `authorization_details` claim. Vault uses these constraints to enforce

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`authorization_details` claim. Vault uses the provided constraints to enforce
```

path-level and parameter-level access control beyond what standard ACL policies provide.

### Default behavior

> RAR is always enabled. An OAuth 2.0 token with `authorization_details` will always have those detailed honoured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vault enables RAR by defailt. and OAuth 2.0 tokens with `authorization_details`
always honor the RAR authentication details.
```
Style correction: write in active voice, use US spelling

When RAR is required and the JWT does not contain an `authorization_details`
claim, Vault rejects the request with an error indicating that the claim is

> required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the JWT does not contain an `authorization_details` claim for a RAR, Vault
rejects the request with an error indicating that the claim is required.
```
Style correction: write in active voice

It's recommended to use RAR for agentic workflows to enable fine-grained

> authorization constraints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommended using RAR for all agentic workflows to enable fine-grained
authorization constraints.
```

### Making RAR optional

You can make RAR optional by setting `optional_authorization_details` to `true`
on **either** the OAuth resource server profile **or** the agent registration.
If either configuration allows optional authorization details, Vault permits

> authentication without the `authorization_details` claim.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While not recommended, making RAR optional can be useful when your identity
provider does not support RAR or during a migration period.

You can make RAR optional in one of two ways:

1. Set `optional_authorization_details` to `true` on the OAuth resource server
   profile.
1. Set `optional_authorization_details` to `true` for the agent registration.

When you make RAR optional, Vault permits authentication without the
`authorization_details` claim.
```
Style correction: avoid using bold for emphasis, make alternatives easy to scan,
use short, direct sentences whenever possible

> This flexibility allows you to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vault provides two methods for making RAR optional so you can:
```
Style correction: avoid "this" as a pronoun

- Configure RAR as optional globally for all agents using a specific issuer
  (set on the OAuth resource server profile).
- Configure RAR as optional for specific agents while keeping it required for
  others from the same issuer (set on individual agent registrations).

When RAR is optional and the `authorization_details` claim is absent, Vault
evaluates the request using only the entity's standard ACL policies without
additional RAR constraints. This option is useful when your identity provider

> does not support RAR or during a migration period.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you make RAR optional, Vault uses standard ACL policies associated with the
requesting entity to evaluate requests that omit the `authorization_details`
claim.
```
Style correction: write in active voice

### RAR type specification

Vault supports the `vault:path_access` RAR type for fine-grained authorization. Each authorization detail object in the `authorization_details` claim must conform to the following structure:

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| ----- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `type` | string | Yes | Must be `vault:path_access` to indicate a Vault path access constraint. |
| `path` | string | Yes | The Vault path the constraint applies to. Supports exact path matching. |
| `capabilities` | array of strings | Yes | List of capabilities permitted for the path. Valid values: `read`, `create`, `update`, `delete`, `list`, `sudo`, `patch`, `subscribe`, `recover`, `deny`. |

> | `allowed_parameters` | object | No | Optional map of parameter names to arrays of allowed values. When specified, restricts which request parameters and values are permitted. An empty array `[]` allows any value for that parameter. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `allowed_parameters` | object | No | Optional map of parameter names to arrays of values that restricts which request parameters and values Vault permits. An empty array `[]` allows any value for that parameter. |
```
Style correction: write in active voice

#### Example authorization detail

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The following constraint:
- Applies to the path `database/creds/my-role`.
- Permits only `read` operations.
- Works with ACL policies to determine final access for the entity.
```
Style correction: introduce what example code does before presenting the code, avoid "this" as a pronoun

```json
{
  "type": "vault:path_access",
  "path": "database/creds/my-role",
  "capabilities": ["read"]
}
```

This constraint:
- Applies to the path `database/creds/my-role`
- Permits only `read` operations

> - Works with the entity's ACL policies to determine final access

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> #### Example of a Rich Authorization Request (RAR) authorization detail object with multiple constraints

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Rich authorization request example
```

A JWT can include multiple authorization detail objects in the `authorization_details` array. Vault evaluates each constraint independently. A request succeeds if it matches at least one constraint that permits the operation.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A JWT can include multiple authorization detail objects in the `authorization_details` array. Vault evaluates each constraint independently. Like with policies, a request succeeds if it matches at least one constraint that permits the operation.

```

> ```json

Reviewer 2: What is this an example of?

Author: Will elaborate the headings to explain it better

> A JWT can include multiple authorization detail objects in the `authorization_details` array. Vault evaluates each constraint independently. Like with policies, a request succeeds if it matches at least one constraint that permits the operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A JWT can include multiple authorization detail objects in the `authorization_details` array. Vault evaluates each constraint independently. Requests that include multiple constraints succeed if it matches at least one constraint that permits the operation.

The following example includes an authorization detail object with multiple constraints:
```

{
  "authorization_details": [
    {
      "type": "vault:path_access",
      "path": "database/creds/readonly-role",
      "capabilities": ["read"]
    },
    {
      "type": "vault:path_access",
      "path": "pki/issue/my-role",
      "capabilities": ["create", "update"]
    }
  ]
}
```

#### How RAR constraints work

> RAR constraints narrow the access granted by ACL policies. For a request to succeed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RAR constraints narrow the access granted by ACL policies. For a request to succeed all of the following must be true:
```

1. **Path and capability matching**: The request path and operation must match at least one RAR constraint's `path` and `capabilities`.
2. **ACL policy check**: The entity's ACL policies must also permit the operation.

> 3. **Parameter validation** (if specified): When a matching RAR constraint includes `allowed_parameters`, the request parameters must satisfy those constraints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The request path and operation must match at least one `path` and
   `capabilities` constraing in the RAR.
1. The ACL policy associated with the entity must permit the operation.
1. When a matching RAR constraint includes `allowed_parameters`, the request
   parameters must satisfy those constraints.
```
We can simplify this as a list of necessary requirements instead of treating it like a concept review

> RAR constraints can only restrict access; they cannot expand permissions beyond what ACL policies allow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RAR constraints only restrict access and cannot expand permissions beyond what
the provide ACL policies allow.
```
Style correction: use simple sentences (e.g., no semi-colons)

| `jwt_type` | The expected token type: `access_token` or `transaction_token`. Defaults to `access_token`. |
| `clock_skew_leeway` | Tolerance in seconds for clock differences when validating time-based claims. |
| `no_default_policy` | If `true`, tokens authenticated through the profile do not automatically receive the `default` policy. |

> | `optional_authorization_details` | If `true`, makes the `authorization_details` claim optional for tokens validated by this profile. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `optional_authorization_details` | If `true`, makes the `authorization_details` claim optional for tokens validated by the configured profile. |
```
Style correction: avoid "this" as a pronoun

Author: Thank you so much for the review and feedback! I've pushed a commit addressing the comments now
